Layer Independent OAM Management in the Multi-Layer Environment (LIME)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Network Operators are increasingly challenged with operational 
   and management limitations in network deployments due to 
   Operations, Administration, and Maintenance (OAM)  operating at 
   different administrative and technology layers. This problem is 
   exacerbated by the lack of a common architectural approach to OAM 
   tools in those different layers. New work on network virtualization 
   further complicates the layering model and the problems of 
   coordinating OAM between layers.

   The absence of a common approach to OAM and to the management 
   interfaces for OAM has made it difficult for operators to:

   • Suppress large numbers of unnecessary alarms and notifications 
     related to defects and failures arising in lower layers and visible 
     in each higher layer
   • Quickly identify root causes of network failures
   • Coordinate end-to-end performance measurement with the results of 
     performance monitoring at different layers in the network
   • Correlate defects, faults, and network failures between the 
     different layers to improve efficiency of defect and fault 
     localization and provide better OAM visibility.

   The LIME working group will concentrate on the operational challenges 
   in consistent handling of end-to-end OAM and coordination of OAM 
   within underlying network layers. This work will enable consistent 
   configuration, reporting, and presentation for the OAM mechanisms 
   used to manage the network, regardless of the layers and 
   technologies. It will also produce architectural guidelines for the 
   development of new OAM tools and protocols in both management plane
   and data plane so that they may be coherent with these mechanisms and
   more easily integrated from an operational points of view.

   The working group will work on the following deliverables:

   • Information models for generic layer-independent and technology
     independent configuration, reporting and presentation of OAM 
     mechanisms.
     
   • YANG data models, based on above mentioned IM, for generic 
     layer-independent and technology-independent configuration, 
     reporting and presentation for OAM mechanisms. Data models 
     expressed in other languages than YANG may be considered.

   • An architecture for new IETF OAM that can be used as guidance by 
     other working groups developing new OAM protocols or modifying 
     existing OAM protocols at any layer and for any technology that is 
     within scope for the IETF. 
   
   The working group will explore and document use-cases for converged
   management of OAM in multi-layer and multi-technology networks that 
   triggered this work. The use cases will consider scenarios that 
   include (but are not limited to) those that rely upon a centralized 
   control point responsible for the overall OAM management and those 
   that assume the delegation of layer-specific OAM management control 
   points. The working group will decide later whether 
   the use case document needs to be published as an RFC.
   
   The initial scope is restricted to a single administrative domain 
   and may be extended for inter-domain scenarios in future as and 
   when a need rises.

   The working group will not develop any new OAM protocols.

   The LIME WG is not chartered to work on information or data models 
   specific to any data plane or forwarding plane technology that is 
   developed outside of the IETF. However, it is the intention that the 
   generic information and data models produced by the working group 
   should be applicable to multiple layers and technologies in a 
   technology agnostic fashion. Therefore, it is anticipated that the 
   working group will closely coordinate its activities with other SDOs 
   (including, but not limited to the ITU-T, MEF, IEEE, BBF and 3GPP) to 
   ensure that the generic models are harmonized with work done in those 
   SDOs and are applicable to many technologies.
